# Arms-Race
A board game based around racing and combat I created with three other people over the course of September 2014.

Arms Race is a game that three others and I made over the course of five weeks for our class “Game Design and Development II”. We had to create a functional board game in the limited time of five weeks and have it playtested by other groups. For our game we chose Arms Race, a game based around completing a lapped race while at the same having the ability to engage in combat with other players. Each player had to initially draw one of five cards holding one unique vehicle each (motorcycle, car, van, bus, and semi-truck). Each vehicle contains unique attributes like how fast they are (how many base spaces they can move each turn) or how much innate defence they have to. Then they must draw cards for engine, weapon, and armor to be fitted on to their vehicles. Everything they add (except for the engines) reduces the speed. When playing the game, all players must roll a 4 sided die and add what comes up to their base speed and move that many spaces. They can move and fire in the four cardinal directions provided that there are no obstacles to impede their movement or fire. When another player comes within the listed range of his or her weapons, the player can fire at the opponent, adding a 6-sidded die role to the weapon’s base damage. If the total damage is higher than the target’s defence, than the target is disabled and must skip his or her next turn. The first player to cross the finish line after a designated number of laps wins. 

Overall, working on Arms Race was very enjoyable. The entire group had good chemistry, worked pretty much evenly throughout, and was unified under a single, shared vision for the game. Due to the short development cycle and strong group cohesion, no one had a specific role or specialty to work on for the game. As a result, all four members worked on every aspect of the game with no one specializing on any portion of it. I worked on the conceptualization, writing the initial rules, creating the values for the cards, designing the combat system and player-to-player interaction, and the considerable rebalancing and rewriting efforts. The entire group became experts on all aspects of the game without becoming specialists in any one field of it. 

While the development of Arms Race was relatively smooth, it was not without its tumults.  Namely, due to the numerically-based combat and movement system we had developed, it required considerable effort to balance and rebalance. Initially, our smaller vehicles (designed to sacrifice protection and offensive capabilities for speed) were able to quickly outpace the larger, slower ones. As a result, anyone who played as the motorcycle was almost guaranteed victory. Over several weeks of playtests and unsatisfying results, we continuously refined the combat, redesigned the cards, and rewrote the rules; only nailing down the perfect balance of speed verses offence in the final days of the project. Another problem was more frustrating: trying to get our playtesters to actually read and follow the rules. We were finally able to assure that the players understood the parameters of the game by revamping the rules, simplifying a few, and drawing attention to areas of importance by bolding the areas of interest. Despite the hectic and short development time and the troubles with continually revamping the game’s rules, Arms Race has been one of the most enjoyable and easiest games to work on yet for me. 
